CS420
HW8
======
To be submitted as a PDF via the Assignments tab on Canvas.
You can handwrite and scan your solutions or generate a PDF 
from your favorite word processor.  However, only PDFs can 
be uploaded on Canvas (i.e. no .docx, .txt, .odt will be 
accepted).
======


1)  Consider a file currently consisting of 80 blocks.  Calculate how many disk I/O operations are required for contiguous, linked, and indexed (single-level) allocation strategies for the scenarios provide in (a), (b), and (c).
Foe each, make the following assumptions: 
  - the file control block will need to be both read and written (not currently cached)
  - the directory structure is contained in a single block
  - the directory structure will need to be read, but may or may not need to be rewritten

    a) The block is added at the beginning.    b) The block is added in the middle.    c) The block is added at the end.



2)  Consider a file currently consisting of 45 blocks.  Calculate how many disk I/O operations are required for contiguous, linked, and indexed (single-level) allocation strategies for the scenarios provide in (a), (b), and (c).
Foe each, make the following assumptions: 
  - the file control block will need to be both read and written (not currently cached)
  - the directory structure is contained in a single block
  - the directory structure will need to be read, but may or may not need to be rewritten

    a) The block is removed from the beginning.    b) The block is removed from the middle.    c) The block is removed from the end.

3)  Why must the bit map for file allocation be kept on mass storage, rather than in main memory?

4)  What are the advantages of the variation of linked allocation that uses a FAT to chain together the blocks of a file?



5)  Suppose that a disk drive has 5000 cylinders, numbered 0 to 4999. The drive is currently serving a request at cylinder 143, and the previous request was at cylinder 125. The queue of pending requests, in FIFO order, is:

    86, 1470, 913, 1774, 948, 1509, 1022, 1750, 130

Starting from the current head position, what is the total distance (in cylinders) that the disk arm moves to satisfy all the pending requests, for each of the following disk-scheduling algorithms?

    a) FCFS
    b) SSTF    c) SCAN 
    d) LOOK    e) C-SCAN
    f) C-LOOK


